22008 beta (#2384)
OpenLiberty/blogs: posts/2022-07-07-beta-release-post.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Enhance the effectiveness of log analysis tools with new JSON fields for logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta"
```

# Do NOT change the categories section
categories: blog
author_picture: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/ryan-storey
author_github: https://github.com/ryan-storey

> seo-title: Enhance the effectiveness of log analysis tools with new JSON fields for logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta - OpenLiberty.io

Author: ```suggestion
seo-title: Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta - OpenLiberty.io
```

> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Reviewer: Should be "Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta".

> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Reviewer: When intro paragraph confirmed, copy that to here too.

> seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Author: ```suggestion
seo-description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta separates stack trace from logged messages by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools.
```

> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Reviewer: Should be "Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta".

> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Reviewer: When intro paragraph confirmed, copy that to here too.

> blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Author: ```suggestion
blog_description: Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta separates stack trace from logged messages by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools.
```

open-graph-image: https://openliberty.io/img/twitter_card.jpg
---

> = Enhance the effectiveness of log analysis tools with new JSON fields for logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta

Reviewer: How about: "= Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta"

> = Enhance the effectiveness of log analysis tools with new JSON fields for logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta

Author: ```suggestion
= Separate stack trace from messages in logged exceptions in Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta
```

Ryan Storey <https://github.com/ryan-storey>
:imagesdir: /
:url-prefix:
:url-about: /
//Blank line here is necessary before starting the body of the post.

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Reviewer: Should be "Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta".

Reviewer: For the intro paragraph, how about: "Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta separates stack trace from logged messages by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools."

> Open Liberty 22.0.0.8 offers new JSON fields for logged exceptions, enhancing the Open Liberty JSON logging and logstashCollector-1.0 features, by increasing the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream, as rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application.

Author: ```suggestion
Open Liberty 22.0.0.8-beta separates stack trace from logged messages by offering new fields for Open Liberty JSON logging and for the Logstash Collector feature. This enables easier-to-read visualizations in downstream log analysis tools.
```

The link:{url-about}[Open Liberty] 22.0.0.8-beta includes the following beta features (along with all GA features):

> * <<json_fields, New JSON fields for logged exceptions (via parameters)>>

Author: ```suggestion
* <<stack_trace, Stack trace separated from logged messages in logging records>>
```

> [#json_fields]

Author: ```suggestion
[#stack_trace]
```

> == New JSON fields for logged exceptions (via parameters)

Reviewer: How about "Stack trace separated from logged messages in logging records" as heading?

> == New JSON fields for logged exceptions (via parameters)

Author: ```suggestion
== Stack trace separated from logged messages in logging records
```

> 

Reviewer: How about replace both paragraphs with:

"The stack trace is now separated from logged messages in logging records so that log analysis tools can present them more clearly. This makes visualizations of the logs by downstream log analysis tools easier to read when you are identifying any issues encountered by the application. Previously, any logging record originating from a Java Logger object that made use of any of the methods that accept a `Throwable` parameter would simply append the stack trace to the existing `message` field. Keeping the `message` field solely for the logged message and having a separate field for the stack trace and exception type enhances the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream.

Java's link:https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/package-summary.html[Logging API] provides methods that allow you to include a `Throwable` as a parameter. When the `Throwable` object is used, Open Liberty's JSON logging provides two new fields, `ibm_stackTrace` and `ibm_exceptionName`, and the Open Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/logstashCollector-1.0.html[Logstash Collector feature] provides two new fields, `stackTrace` and `exceptionName`. The stack trace fields present only the stack trace of the `Throwable` object. The exception name fields present the type of exception of the `Throwable` object."

Does this read okay? I'm trying to separate the "why it's good" (first paragraph) from the "how it works" (second paragraph).

Also, the names of features should be their proper names, not their configuration names.

> Incorporated as part of the Java's logger API are methods that allow you to include a `Throwable` as a parameter. This new functionality enhances Open Liberty's JSON logging and the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/logstashCollector-1.0.html[`logstashCollector-1.0` feature] by introducing two new fields relevant to the `Throwable` object. For Open Liberty's JSON logging, the fields are `ibm_stackTrace` and `ibm_exceptionName`. For the `logstashCollector-1.0` feature the fields are `stackTrace` and `exceptionName`. The `stack trace` field would present solely the stack trace of the `Throwable`. The `exception name` field would present the type of exception of the `Throwable`. These fields are only included if the logging record includes a `Throwable` object. This affects the message and trace events for both the Open Liberty JSON logging and `logstashCollector-1.0` features.

Reviewer: The API name should be capitalised. But also I don't think that's the name of the API. I think it should be "Logging API". The object is the "Logger object" but I think it's the API that's being talked about here. Could link "Logger API" to the online javadoc (https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/package-summary.html)?

> Prior to this enhancement, any logging record originating from a Java Logger which made use of any of the methods that accept a `Throwable` parameter would simply append the stack trace to the existing `message` field.  By keeping the `message` field solely for the logged message and having a unique field for the stack trace and exception type enhances the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream. Rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application. No configuration is necessary to enable the new functionality.

Reviewer: ("which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application." doesn't make sense...)

> Incorporated as part of the Java's logger API are methods that allow you to include a `Throwable` as a parameter. This new functionality enhances Open Liberty's JSON logging and the link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/logstashCollector-1.0.html[`logstashCollector-1.0` feature] by introducing two new fields relevant to the `Throwable` object. For Open Liberty's JSON logging, the fields are `ibm_stackTrace` and `ibm_exceptionName`. For the `logstashCollector-1.0` feature the fields are `stackTrace` and `exceptionName`. The `stack trace` field would present solely the stack trace of the `Throwable`. The `exception name` field would present the type of exception of the `Throwable`. These fields are only included if the logging record includes a `Throwable` object. This affects the message and trace events for both the Open Liberty JSON logging and `logstashCollector-1.0` features.
> 
> Prior to this enhancement, any logging record originating from a Java Logger which made use of any of the methods that accept a `Throwable` parameter would simply append the stack trace to the existing `message` field.  By keeping the `message` field solely for the logged message and having a unique field for the stack trace and exception type enhances the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream. Rules and visualizations relevant to these two new exception related fields can be created which results in more stream-lined strategy to identify any issues encountered by the application. No configuration is necessary to enable the new functionality.

Author: ```suggestion
The stack trace is now separated from logged messages in logging records so that log analysis tools can present them more clearly. This makes visualizations of the logs by downstream log analysis tools easier to read when you are identifying any issues encountered by the application. Previously, any logging record originating from a Java Logger object that made use of any of the methods that accept a `Throwable` parameter would simply append the stack trace to the existing `message` field. Keeping the `message` field solely for the logged message and having a separate field for the stack trace and exception type enhances the effectiveness of log analysis tools down stream.

Java's link:https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/package-summary.html[Logging API] provides methods that allow you to include a `Throwable` as a parameter. When the `Throwable` object is used, Open Liberty's JSON logging provides two new fields, `ibm_stackTrace` and `ibm_exceptionName`, and the Open Liberty link:{url-prefix}/docs/latest/reference/feature/logstashCollector-1.0.html[Logstash Collector] feature provides two new fields, `stackTrace` and `exceptionName`. The stack trace fields present only the stack trace of the `Throwable` object. The exception name fields present the type of exception of the `Throwable` object.
```

*Example:*

For the example we will only be showing the message log record for Open Liberty's JSON logging.

Application with the following code snippet:
[source, java]
----
Logger logger = Logger.getLogger(MyResource.class.getCanonicalName());
Exception exception = new IllegalArgumentException("ouch");
logger.log(Level.INFO, "exception message", exception);
----

Previous Open Liberty JSON logging output:

[source, json]
----
{
    "type": "liberty_message",
    ...
    "message": “exception message  java.lang.RuntimeException: ouch\r\n\tatmy.package.MyResource.get(MyResource.java:32)\r\n\tatmy.package.MyResource.get(MyResource.java:20)\r\n...",
    ...
}
----

New Open Liberty JSON logging output:

[source, json]
----
{
    "type": "liberty_message",
    ...
    "message": “exception message",
    "ibm_exceptionName":"java.lang.IllegalArgumentException",
    "ibm_stackTrace":"java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: ouch\r\n\tat my.package.MyResource.get(MyResource.java:20)\r\n...",
    ...
}
----

[#run]
=== Try it now 

> To try out these features, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty All Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE XX, Java SE 17, Java SE 11, and Java SE 8.

Reviewer: "Java SE XX"? What does this refer to?

> To try out these features, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty All Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE XX, Java SE 17, Java SE 11, and Java SE 8.

Author: ```suggestion
To try out these features, just update your build tools to pull the Open Liberty All Beta Features package instead of the main release. The beta works with Java SE 18, Java SE 17, Java SE 11, and Java SE 8.
```
